# Plant Identification

### Goal
The goal of this project was to provide an application that was capable of identifying a variety of plant species specifically within Alberta due to the diverse ecosystem and to provide a better solution for replanting during things like construction.

### Solution
Images were gathered from publically available sources from a variety of groups within this project. The images for the Canada Buffaloberry were collected using a python script utilizing an API that takes images in the public domain from [iNaturalist](https://www.inaturalist.org/) a source of peer-reviewed plant images. All the plant images were then manually labelled with plant names and bounding boxes by the groups that collected them. A YOLOv8 Object Detection model was trained, and integrated into a hosted Gradio demo.

### [Gradio Demo](https://kadenshubert-plant-id-demo.hf.space)

## Model Training

### Data Preparation
- **Zip Files:**
  - **All_Plant_Data:** Contains all plant images and labels before restructuring for model training. 
  - **TrainModels:** Contains the properly structured images and labels used to train the model for the demo.

### Notebooks and Scripts
- **Image-Label_Formatting.ipynb:** Processes the image & label files in the All_Plant_Data folder. This includes adjusting mislabeled detections, removing images with missing label files, and formatting them into the proper structure for the YOLOv8 model.
- **Plant Identification.ipynb:** Trains a YOLOv8 model for object detection using the processed plant image and label files.
- **plant-identification.yaml:** Contains the data structure for YOLO and the class names used for object detection.

## Image Collection Process

### Python Scripts
- **Filter_observations.py:** Filters observations to include only those from Canada as per the project requirements.
- **additional_images.py:** Utilizes the iNaturalist API to find additional images for Canadian observations and generates a file containing information for all relevant images.
- **get_images.py:** Downloads the relevant images using the obtained image URLs, names the files accordingly, and generates a CSV file to track the source of each downloaded image as per project requirements.
- **main.py:** Runs all the supporting scripts in order: `Filter_observations.py`, `additional_images.py`, `get_images.py`.

### CSV Files
- **observations_Full.csv:** Contains an export of observation information from iNaturalist using the query in `export_query.txt`.
- **Canadian_Observations.csv:** Generated by `Filter_observations.py`, this file contains observation IDs, observation URLs, and the first image URL for Canadian observations.
- **All_Images_CanadianBuffaloBerry.csv:** Generated by `additional_images.py`, this file contains observation IDs, observation URLs, and image URLs for all images related to the Canadian observations.
- **CanadianBuffaloBerry_Canada_Info.csv:** Generated by `get_images.py`, this file includes the observation URL, image URL, and saved image name to track the source of the images.
